Files can be classified as either text or binary. A file that can be processed (read, created, or 
modified) using a text editor such as Notepad on Windows or vi on UNIX is called a text file.
All the other files are called binary files. You cannot read binary files using a text editor—they 
are designed to be read by programs. For example, Java source programs are text files and can 
be read by a text editor, but Java class files are binary files and are read by the JVM.
Although it is not technically precise and correct, you can envision a text file as consisting 
of a sequence of characters and a binary file as consisting of a sequence of bits. Characters 
in a text file are encoded using a character encoding scheme such as ASCII or Unicode. For 
example, the decimal integer 199 is stored as a sequence of three characters 1, 9, 9 in a text 
file, and the same integer is stored as a byte-type value C7 in a binary file, because decimal 
199 equals hex C7 (199 = 12 * 161 + 7). The advantage of binary files is that they are 
more efficient to process than text files. 
Java offers many classes for performing file input and output. These can be categorised as 
text I/O classes and binary I/O classes. In Section 12.11, File Input and Output, you learned 
how to read and write strings and numeric values from/to a text file using Scanner and PrintWriter.

Recall that a File object encapsulates the properties of a file or a path but does not contain 
the methods for reading/writing data from/to a file. In order to perform I/O, you need to 
create objects using appropriate Java I/O classes. The objects contain the methods for reading/
writing data from/to a file. For example, to write text to a file named temp.txt, you can create 
an object using the PrintWriter class as follows:
PrintWriter output = new PrintWriter("temp.txt");
You can now invoke the print method on the object to write a string to the file. For example, 
the following statement writes Java 101 to the file.
output.print("Java 101");
The next statement closes the file.
output.close();
There are many I/O classes for various purposes. In general, these can be classified as input 
classes and output classes. An input class contains the methods to read data, and an output
class contains the methods to write data. PrintWriter is an example of an output class, and 
Scanner is an example of an input class.